---
description: w90 input variables
rpath: /variables/w90.md
---
<!--
This file is automatically generated by mksite.py. All changes will be lost.
Change the input yaml files or the python code
-->
# w90 input variables

This document lists and provides the description of the name (keywords) of the
w90 input variables to be used in the input file for the abinit executable.

## **w90iniprj** 


*Mnemonics:* Wannier90- INItial PROJections  
*Mentioned in topic(s):* [[topic:Wannier]]  
*Variable type:* integer  
*Dimensions:* scalar  
*Default value:* 1  
*Only relevant if:* [[prtwant]]==2 or [[prtwant]]==3  

??? note "Test list (click to open) (Rarely used, [8/920] in all abinit tests, [2/116] in abinit tutorials)"
    - tutoplugs:  [[tests/tutoplugs/Input/tw90_3.in|tw90_3.in]], [[tests/tutoplugs/Input/tw90_4.in|tw90_4.in]]
    - wannier90:  [[tests/wannier90/Input/t01.in|t01.in]], [[tests/wannier90/Input/t02.in|t02.in]], [[tests/wannier90/Input/t03.in|t03.in]], [[tests/wannier90/Input/t11.in|t11.in]], [[tests/wannier90/Input/t12.in|t12.in]], [[tests/wannier90/Input/t13.in|t13.in]]






In order to find the Maximally Localized Wannier Functions, the user has to
provide an initial guess. A set of localized trial orbitals is chosen
corresponding to some rough initial guess at the Wannier Functions, and these
are projected onto the Bloch eigenstates. See Ivo Souza, Nicola Marzari, and
David Vanderbilt. Phys. Rev. B, 65, 035109 (2001).  
These initial projections are stored in a file .amn and the variable **
w90iniprj ** is used to construct them:

  * ** w90iniprj ** =1: Random projections.   
  

  * ** w90iniprj ** =2: The initial projections will be a linear combination of hydrogenic atomic orbitals.   
The user has to define the projections in the secondary input file
wannier90.win  
Information about how to define them can be found in the manual of Wannier90.
See  [ www.wannier.org ](http://www.wannier.org)


* * *

## **w90prtunk** 


*Mnemonics:* Wannier90- PRINT UNKp.s file  
*Mentioned in topic(s):* [[topic:Wannier]]  
*Variable type:* integer  
*Dimensions:* scalar  
*Default value:* 0  
*Comment:* The default is set to zero because UNKp.s files occupy a lot of
memory.  
*Only relevant if:* [[prtwant]]==2 or [[prtwant]]==3  

??? note "Test list (click to open) (Rarely used, [8/920] in all abinit tests, [4/116] in abinit tutorials)"
    - tutoplugs:  [[tests/tutoplugs/Input/tw90_1.in|tw90_1.in]], [[tests/tutoplugs/Input/tw90_2.in|tw90_2.in]], [[tests/tutoplugs/Input/tw90_3.in|tw90_3.in]], [[tests/tutoplugs/Input/tw90_4.in|tw90_4.in]]
    - wannier90:  [[tests/wannier90/Input/t03.in|t03.in]], [[tests/wannier90/Input/t11.in|t11.in]], [[tests/wannier90/Input/t12.in|t12.in]], [[tests/wannier90/Input/t13.in|t13.in]]






Defines whether or not the UNKp.s file will be printed.

  * [[w90prtunk]]=0: Do not print the UNKp.s files   
  

  * [[w90prtunk]]=1: Print the UNKp.s files on a fine grid   
  

  * [[w90prtunk]]&gt;1: Print the UNKp.s files on a coarse grid   
Instead of printing every record we will print every w90prtunk records. This
is useful to reduce the size of the UNKp.s files, but, the quality is also
reduced.

  
  
These files contain the periodic part of the bloch states represented on a
regular real space grid. They are indexed by k-point ** p ** (from 1 to nkpt)
and spin ** s ** ('1' for 'up','2' for 'down').  
  
The name of the wavefunction file is assumed to have the form:  
  
write(wfnname,200) ** p ** , ** spin **  
200 format ('UNK',i5.5,'.',i1)  
  
These file are unformatted. The first line of each file contains 5 integers:
the number of grid points in each direction ( ** n1 ** , ** n2 ** and ** n3 **
), the k-point number ** ikpt ** and the total number of bands mband in the
file. The following rows contain the wavefunctions in real space.

These files are written in the following way for the coarse grid:

    
    
     write(iun_plot) n1/w90prtunk,n2/w90prtunk,n3/w90prtunk,ikpt,nband
    write(iun_plot) (((fofr(1,jj1,jj2,jj3),fofr(2,jj1,jj2,jj3),&
    &      jj1=1,n1,w90prtunk),jj2=1,n2,w90prtunk),jj3=1,n3,w90prtunk)
    

Where ** fofr ** is a double precision variable which contains the
wavefunctions in real space. Note that in order to reduce the size of the UNK
files we are just including records in the wavefunctions for 1/(w90prtunk^3)
of the grid points. That is why we divide n1, n2 and n3 by prtunk. The output
.xsf files for plotting with XCrysDen will also be on the coarse grid. When
this does not produce an acceptable plot, prtunk can be set to 1 to output
every grid point. (You should try spline interpolation in XCrysDen first.)


* * *

