---
!!python/unicode 'authors': BAmadon
!!python/unicode 'rpath': !!python/unicode '/topics/DFT+U.md'
---
<!--
This file is automatically generated by mksite.py. All changes will be lost.
Change the input yaml files or the python code
-->

This page gives hints on how to perform a DFT+U calculation with the ABINIT package.

## Introduction

This feature is available only in PAW. The DFT+U framework is described in
[[Anisimov1991]] and [[Liechtenstein1995]]. In ABINIT, the DFT+U approximation
is implemented inside the PAW atomic spheres only. Two choices of double
counting are provided: the Full Localized limit and the Around Mean Field
approximation. Our implementation is described in [[Amadon2008a]]. It follows
the main lines of [[Bengone2000]]. See als [[Czyzyk1994]]. Forces and stress
are implemented. For details on keywords
([[lpawu]],[[upawu]],[[jpawu]],[[usedmatpu]],[[dmatpuopt]],[[dmatudiag]]) see
keyword [[usepawu]] in input variables.

In both the output and log files, we can find:

\- The DFT+U contribution of energy which is contained inside the PAW
Spherical terms in the output file.

\- The Decomposition of the LDA+U energy is given (Interaction energy, Double
counting term, and sum of the two) in the log file.

\- The orbital density matrix (n_{m,m'}^{\sigma}), also called occupation
matrix (corresponding to Eq.(9) of [[Bengone2000]] and Eq.(1) of
[[Liechtenstein1995]], see also [5] and variable [[dmatpuopt]]) is also given
for each atom in the basis of real spherical harmonics. It is given at each
SCF step in the log file: one can thus check the convergency of the
calculation.

Consistency between total energy and forces in DFT+U have been checked.



## Related Input Variables

*compulsory:*

- [[abinit:jpawu]]  value of J for PAW+U
- [[abinit:lpawu]]  value of angular momentum L for PAW+U
- [[abinit:upawu]]  value of U for PAW+U
- [[abinit:usepawu]]  USE PAW+U (spherical part)
 
*expert:*

- [[abinit:atvshift]]  ATomic potential (V) energy SHIFTs
- [[abinit:dmatpuopt]]  Density MATrix for PAW+U OPTion
- [[abinit:dmatudiag]]  Density MATrix for paw+U, DIAGonalization
- [[abinit:f4of2_sla]]  F4 Over F2 ratio of Slater integrals
- [[abinit:f6of2_sla]]  F6 Over F2 ratio of Slater integrals
- [[abinit:macro_uj]]  MACRO variable that activates the determination of the U and J parameter (for the PAW+U calculations)
- [[abinit:natvshift]]  Number of ATomic potential (V) energy SHIFTs (per atom)
- [[abinit:normpawu]]  NORMalize atomic PAW+U projector
- [[abinit:pawujat]]  PAW+macro_UJ, ATom number
- [[abinit:pawujrad]]  PAW+macro_UJ, sphere RADius
- [[abinit:pawujv]]  PAW+macro_UJ, potential shift (V)
 
*internal:*

- [[abinit:natpawu]]  Number of AToms on which PAW+U is applied
 
*useful:*

- [[abinit:dmatpawu]]  initial Density MATrix for PAW+U
- [[abinit:usedmatpu]]  USE of an initial Density MATrix in Paw+U
 

## Selected Input Files

*v5:*

- [[tests/v5/Input/t14.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t15.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t40.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t19.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t33.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t39.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t37.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t20.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t38.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t16.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t08.in]]
 
*v7:*

- [[tests/v7/Input/t21.in]]
- [[tests/v7/Input/t22.in]]
 

## Tutorials

* [The lesson on DFT+U](../../tutorial/generated_files/lesson_dftu.html) shows how to perform a DFT+U calculation using ABINIT, and will lead to compute the projected DOS of NiO. Prerequisite : PAW1.

