---
authors: JLaflamme
---
<!--
This file is automatically generated by mksite.py. All changes will be lost.
Change the input yaml files or the python code
-->

This page gives hints on how to perform an effective mass calculation with the ABINIT package.

## Introduction

The direct estimation of effective masses from DFT band curvature using
[[topic:DFPT]] has been implemented within the linear response part of ABINIT
[[Laflamme2016]]. This method avoids the use of finite differences to estimate
these masses, which eliminates the associated numerical noise and convergence
study. To compute the effective masses, one has to set the keyword [[efmas]]
to 1 within a calculation of the derivative of ground-state wavefunctions with
respect to wavevector ([[rfelfd]] = 1 or 2). The effective masses will then be
computed for all k-points and bands present in the calculation. One can
optionally specify the range of bands to be treated for each k-point with the
keyword [[efmas_bands]].

An additional feature of the effective mass implementation is the correct
treatment of degenerate bands. Indeed, the concept of effective mass breaks
down at degenerate band extrema since it is no longer possible to describe
band curvature using a tensor [[Luttinger1955]],[[Mecholsky2014]]. However,
using the concept of ``transport equivalent effective mass'' [[Mecholsky2014]]
and its adaptation to the **k.p** framework, the implementation is able to
provide the user with effective mass tensors which, while not describing the
band curvature, describe accurately the contribution of the individual bands
to transport properties.

The implementation supports both NCPP and PAW schemes.

Spin-polarized systems ([[nspden]] = 2) as well as spinors ([[nspinor]] = 2)
can be treated, although the spin-orbit interaction can only be treated in the
PAW case.

The treatment of degenerescences is limited to the extremal points of the band
structure (which are the most relevant in any case).

By the way, the first derivative of the eigenenergies is also computed and
printed during a d/dk calculation, and corresponds to the electronic velocity.



## Related Input Variables

*basic:*

- [[abinit:efmas_dirs]]  EFfective MASs, DIRectionS to be calculated
- [[abinit:efmas_n_dirs]]  EFfective MASs, Number of DIRectionS
- [[abinit:efmas_ntheta]]  EFfective MASs, Number of points for integration w/r to THETA
 
*compulsory:*

- [[abinit:efmas]]  EFfective MASs
- [[abinit:rfelfd]]  Response Function with respect to the ELectric FielD
 
*useful:*

- [[abinit:efmas_bands]]  EFfective MASs, BANDS to be treated.
- [[abinit:efmas_calc_dirs]]  EFfective MASs, CALCulate along DIRectionS
- [[abinit:efmas_deg]]  EFfective MASs, activate DEGenerate formalism
- [[abinit:efmas_deg_tol]]  EFfective MASs, DEGeneracy TOLerance
- [[abinit:efmas_dim]]  EFfective MASs, DIMension of the effective mass tensor
 

## Selected Input Files

*v7:*

- [[tests/v7/Input/t80.in]]
- [[tests/v7/Input/t81.in]]
 

