---
authors: MV
description: ElPhonTransport Abinit topic
rpath: /topics/ElPhonTransport.md
---
<!--
This file is automatically generated by mksite.py. All changes will be lost.
Change the input yaml files or the python code
-->

This page gives hints on how to compute transport properties that are determined by the electron-phonon
interaction (electrical resistivity, superconductivity, thermal conductivity) with the ABINIT package.

## Introduction

Warning : this topic concerns metals only.

The calculation of bulk transport quantities (electrical and thermal
resistivities - the part that is determined by the electron-phonon
interaction) is possible using anaddb. Analogous quantities are obtained from
the conducti post-processor, but due to electron-electron scattering, instead
of electron-phonon.

A preliminary calculation of the derivatives of the wavefunctions with respect
to k-vector must be carried out. After generating a GKK file (see
[[topic_ElPhonInt]]), the Electron-Phonon Coupling (EPC) analysis is performed
in anaddb, setting [[anaddb:elphflag]] variable to 1. Most of the procedure is
automatic, but can be lengthy if a large number of k-points is being used.

For the superconductivity calculations, The electron-phonon interaction is
interpolated in reciprocal space, then integrated over the Fermi surface to
give the Eliashberg function. Several quadrature methods are available. The
default ([[anaddb:telphint]]=1) is to use Gaussian weighting, with a width
[[anaddb:elphsmear]]. Another option is the improved tetrahedron
[[Bloechl1994a]] ([[anaddb:telphint]]=0). Finally ([[anaddb:telphint]]=2), one
can integrate a given set of electron bands, between [[anaddb:ep_b_max]] and
[[anaddb:ep_b_min]]. The resulting integrated quantities are the Eliashberg
function (in a file suffixed _A2F), and the EPC strength λ which is printed in
the main output file.

The transport calculation is turned on by setting [[anaddb:ifltransport]] to 1
in anaddb. The transport quantities depend on the Fermi velocity for each
band, and the electronic band-dependence of the matrix elements must be
preserved before integration, by setting [[anaddb:ep_keepbands]] to 1. This
increases the memory used, by the square of the number of bands crossing EF.
The results are the transport Eliashberg function (in file _A2F_TR), the
electrical resistivity (in file _RHO), and the thermal conductivity (in file
_WTH).

It is also possible to consider the temperature dependence of the Fermi
energy: cubic spline interpolation ([[anaddb:ep_nspline]]) enables to linearly
interpolate the transport arrays and reduce the memory usage. Besides setting
the Fermi level with [[anaddb:elph_fermie]] (in Hartree), it is also possible
to specify the extra electrons per unit cell, (i.e., the doping concentration
often expressed in cm-3) with [[anaddb:ep_extrael]].

Some details about the calculation of electron-phonon quantities in ABINIT and
ANADDB can be found [here](../documents/elphon_manual.pdf).



## Related Input Variables

*basic:*

- [[anaddb:ep_keepbands]]  Electron-Phonon KEEP dependence on electron BANDS
- [[anaddb:ifltransport]]  IFLag for TRANSPORT
- [[anaddb:kptrlatt]]  K PoinT Reciprocal LATTice
- [[anaddb:telphint]]  Technique for ELectron-PHonon INTegration
 
*compulsory:*

- [[anaddb:elphflag]]  ELectron-PHonon FLAG
 
*expert:*

- [[anaddb:band_gap]]  BAND GAP
- [[anaddb:ep_nqpt]]  Electron Phonon Number of Q PoinTs
- [[anaddb:kptrlatt_fine]]  K PoinT Reciprocal LATTice for FINE grid
 
*useful:*

- [[anaddb:a2fsmear]]  Alpha2F SMEARing factor
- [[anaddb:elph_fermie]]  ELectron-PHonon FERMI Energy
- [[anaddb:elphsmear]]  ELectron-PHonon SMEARing factor
- [[anaddb:ep_b_max]]  Electron Phonon integration Band MAXimum
- [[anaddb:ep_b_min]]  Electron Phonon integration Band MINimum
- [[anaddb:ep_extrael]]  Electron-Phonon EXTRA ELectrons
- [[anaddb:ep_nspline]]  Electron Phonon Number for SPLINE interpolation
- [[anaddb:mustar]]  MU STAR
- [[anaddb:prtfsurf]]  PRinT the Fermi SURFace
- [[anaddb:prtvol]]  PRinT VOLume
 

## Selected Input Files

*v5:*

- [[tests/v5/Input/t88.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t89.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t90.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t91.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t92.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t93.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t94.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t95.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t99.in]]
 
*v6:*

- [[tests/v6/Input/t76.in]]
- [[tests/v6/Input/t93.in]]
- [[tests/v6/Input/t94.in]]
 
*v7:*

- [[tests/v7/Input/t88.in]]
- [[tests/v7/Input/t93.in]]
- [[tests/v7/Input/t94.in]]
 

## Tutorials

* [The lesson on the electron-phonon interaction](../../tutorial/generated_files/lesson_eph.html) presents the use of the utility MRGKK and ANADDB to examine the electron-phonon interaction and the subsequent calculation of superconductivity temperature (for bulk systems).

