---
!!python/unicode 'authors': MV
!!python/unicode 'rpath': !!python/unicode '/topics/ElPhonInt.md'
---
<!--
This file is automatically generated by mksite.py. All changes will be lost.
Change the input yaml files or the python code
-->

This page gives hints on how to compute the matrix elements of the electron-phonon interaction with the ABINIT package.

## Introduction

The theory and details of the implementation are described in [[Gonze2009]]
and [[Gonze2016]].

Basic calculations of electron-phonon interaction in ABINIT: one performs a
normal ground state, then DFPT phonon calculations (using [[rfphon]], with
added keywords [[prepgkk]] and [[prtgkk]], which saves the matrix elements to
files suffixed GKK. The main change in this respect is that [[prtgkk]] now
disables the use of symmetry in reducing q-points and perturbations. This
avoids ambiguities in wave function phases due to band degeneracies. The
resulting GKK files are merged using the mrggkk utility, and processed by
anaddb.

With the implementation of phonons in PAW DFPT, the electron phonon coupling
is also available in PAW, though this has not yet been tested extensively. The
input variables for electron-phonon coupling in anaddb are described in
[[Gonze2009]] and [[Gonze2016]].

Some details about the calculation of electron-phonon quantities in ABINIT and
ANADDB can be found [here](../documents/elphon_manual.pdf).

Subsequently, the GKK file is used to compute many quantities, as explained in
[[topic_PhononWidth]], [[topic_TDepES]] and [[topic_ElPhonTransport]].

A brand new ABINIT driver, focusing on the treatment of electron-phonon
interaction is under development. Most of the input variables for experts,
with [[optdriver]]==7 are related to this development, that is not yet
operational as of v8.5 .



## Related Input Variables

*compulsory:*

- [[abinit:optdriver]]  OPTions for the DRIVER
- [[abinit:prepgkk]]  PREPAre GKK calculation
- [[abinit:prtgkk]]  PRinT the GKK matrix elements file
 
*expert:*

- [[abinit:ddb_ngqpt]]  Derivative DataBase: Number of Grid points for Q-PoinTs
- [[abinit:ddb_shiftq]]  Derivative DataBase: SHIFT of the Q-points 
- [[abinit:eph_extrael]]  Electron-PHonon: EXTRA ELectrons
- [[abinit:eph_fermie]]  Electron-PHonon: FERMI Energy
- [[abinit:eph_fsewin]]  Electron-Phonon: Fermi Surface Energy WINdow
- [[abinit:eph_fsmear]]  Electron-PHonon: Fermi surface SMEARing
- [[abinit:eph_intmeth]]  Electron-Phonon: INTegration METHod
- [[abinit:eph_mustar]]  Electron-PHonon : MU STAR (electron-electron interaction strength)
- [[abinit:eph_ngqpt_fine]]  Electron-PHonon : Number of Grid Q-PoinTs in FINE grid.
- [[abinit:eph_task]]  Electron-PHonon: Task
- [[abinit:eph_transport]]  Electron-PHonon: TRANSPORT flag
- [[abinit:getddb]]  GET the DDB from ...
- [[abinit:prtphdos]]  PRinT the PHonon Density Of States
- [[abinit:prtphsurf]]  PRinT PHonon iso-SURFace
- [[anaddb:ep_prt_yambo]]  Electron Phonon PRinTout YAMBO data
- [[anaddb:symgkq]]  SYMmetrize the GKk matrix elements for each Q
 
*useful:*

- [[abinit:get1den]]  GET the first-order density from _1DEN file
- [[abinit:irdddb]]  Integer that governs the ReaDing of DDB file
- [[abinit:use_nonscf_gkk]]  USE NON-SCF calculation of GKK matrix elements (electron phonon)
- [[anaddb:gkqwrite]]  GKk for input Q grid to be WRITtEn to disk
 

## Selected Input Files

*v5:*

- [[tests/v5/Input/t97.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t98.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t96.in]]
 
*v7:*

- [[tests/v7/Input/t90.in]]
- [[tests/v7/Input/t89.in]]
- [[tests/v7/Input/t92.in]]
- [[tests/v7/Input/t91.in]]
 

## Tutorials

* [[lesson_rf1|The lesson Response-Function 1 (RF1)]] presents the basics of DFPT calculations within ABINIT. The example given is the study of dynamical and dielectric properties of AlAs (an insulator): phonons at Gamma, dielectric constant, Born effective charges, LO-TO splitting, phonons in the whole Brillouin zone. The creation of the "Derivative Data Base" (DDB) is presented.
* [The lesson on the electron-phonon interaction](../../tutorial/generated_files/lesson_eph.html) presents the use of the utility MRGKK and ANADDB to examine the electron-phonon interaction and the subsequent calculation of superconductivity temperature (for bulk systems).

