---
authors: FJ
rpath: topics/Hybrids.md
---
<!--
This file is automatically generated by mksite.py. All changes will be lost.
Change the input yaml files or the python code
-->

This page gives hints on how to use hybrid functionals with the ABINIT package.

## Introduction

The Fock exchange term has been implemented in ABINIT, both in the norm-
conserving pseudopotential framework and in the PAW one. Some details about
the implementation in ABINIT can be found
[here](../documents/hybrids-2017.pdf).  
For an ABINIT user, to make a calculation of Fock exchange:  
\- do a first GGA dataset for the ground state  
\- do a second dataset for the Fock calculation choosing [[ixc]]=40-42 (HF,
PBE0, PBE0-1/3), -406 (PBE0-Libxc), -456 (PBE0-1/3 Libxc), or -427, -428
(HSE03, HSE06).

  
The energy and forces are available in the norm-conserving and PAW frameworks.
Stresses are available in the norm-conserving framework only for the moment.

WARNING:  
Forces and stresses cannot be calculated simultaneously for the moment.  
The spin polarised case has not been extensively tested for the moment.  
Use [[istwfk]]=1, [[iscf]]=2, [[paral_kgb]]=0, [[paral_atom]]=0.  
The efficiency of the calculation is not optimal. Work is in progress
concerning this point.



## Related Input Variables

*compulsory:*

- [[abinit:ixc]]  Index of eXchange-Correlation functional
 
*expert:*

- [[abinit:cgtyphf]]  Conjugate Gradient TYPe used for Hartree Fock exact exchange
- [[abinit:nkpthf]]  Number of K - Points for (Hartree) Fock exact exchange
- [[abinit:nnsclohf]]  Number of Non-Self Consistent LOops for (Hartree)-Fock exact exchange
 
*internal:*

- [[abinit:usefock]]  USE FOCK exact exchange
 
*useful:*

- [[abinit:nbandhf]]  Number of BANDs for (Hartree)-Fock exact exchange
- [[abinit:nphf]]  Number of Processors for (Hartree)-Fock exact exchange
 

## Selected Input Files

*paral:*

- [[tests/paral/Input/t93.in]]
- [[tests/paral/Input/t94.in]]
 
*v7:*

- [[tests/v7/Input/t65.in]]
- [[tests/v7/Input/t66.in]]
 

