---
authors: FJ
rpath: topics/PAW.md
---
<!--
This file is automatically generated by mksite.py. All changes will be lost.
Change the input yaml files or the python code
-->

This page gives hints on how to set parameters for a PAW calculation with the ABINIT package.

## Introduction

The PAW atomic data can be used with plane waves as well as with wavelets.
Specificities of PAW for use with planewaves are presented here. See
[[topic_Wavelets]] for its use with wavelets.

The way the PAW method is implemented with planewaves in ABINIT is described
in [[Torrent2008]].  
The use of PAW atomic data (equivalent to pseudopotential file for the norm-
conserving case) automatically launch a PAW calculation. ABINIT is provided
with the JTH [[Jollet2014]] PAW atomic data table on the ABINIT web site.  
To perform a standard PAW calculation, the input file is the same than for a
norm-conserving one, except that the variable [[pawecutdg]] must be specified
(see below). In the case the input variable [[accuracy]] is used, the input
variable [[pawecutdg]] is automatically used.  
Some physical functionalities are available only in the PAW framework: DFT+U,
DMFT, local exact exchange,...



## Related Input Variables

*compulsory:*

- [[abinit:pawecutdg]]  PAW - Energy CUToff for the Double Grid
 
*expert:*

- [[abinit:bxctmindg]]  BoX CuT-off MINimum for the Double Grid (PAW)
- [[abinit:mqgriddg]]  Maximum number of Q-wavevectors for the 1-dimensional GRID  for the Double Grid in PAW
- [[abinit:pawcpxocc]]  PAW - use ComPleX rhoij OCCupancies
- [[abinit:pawlcutd]]  PAW - L angular momentum used to CUT the development in moments of the Densitites
- [[abinit:pawlmix]]  PAW - maximum L used in the spherical part MIXing
- [[abinit:pawmixdg]]  PAW - MIXing is done (or not) on the (fine) Double Grid
- [[abinit:pawnhatxc]]  PAW - Flag for exact computation of gradients of NHAT density in eXchange-Correlation.
- [[abinit:pawnphi]]  PAW - Number of PHI angles used to discretize the sphere around each atom.
- [[abinit:pawntheta]]  PAW - Number of THETA angles used to discretize the sphere around each atom.
- [[abinit:pawnzlm]]  PAW - only compute Non-Zero LM-moments of the contributions to the density from the spheres
- [[abinit:pawoptmix]]  PAW - OPTion for the MIXing of the spherical part
- [[abinit:pawovlp]]  PAW - spheres OVerLaP allowed (in percentage)
- [[abinit:pawstgylm]]  PAW - option for the STorage of G_l(r).YLM(r)
- [[abinit:pawsushat]]  PAW - SUSceptibility, inclusion of HAT (compensation charge) contribution
- [[abinit:pawusecp]]  PAW - option for the USE of CPrj in memory (cprj=WF projected with NL projector)
- [[abinit:pawxcdev]]  PAW - choice for eXchange-Correlation DEVelopment (spherical part)
 
*internal:*

- [[abinit:usepaw]]  USE Projector Augmented Waves method
 
*useful:*

- [[abinit:ngfftdg]]  Number of Grid points for Fast Fourier Transform : Double Grid
- [[abinit:pawfatbnd]]  PAW: print band structure in the FAT-BaND representation
- [[abinit:pawprt_b]]  PAW PRinT band
- [[abinit:pawprt_k]]  PAW PRinT K-point
- [[abinit:pawprtden]]  PAW: PRinT total physical electron DENsity
- [[abinit:pawprtdos]]  PAW: PRinT partial DOS contributions
- [[abinit:pawprtvol]]  PAW: PRinT VOLume
- [[abinit:pawprtwf]]  PAW: PRinT WaveFunctions
- [[abinit:pawspnorb]]  PAW - option for SPiN-ORBit coupling
- [[abinit:spnorbscl]]  SPin-ORBit SCaLing
- [[abinit:usexcnhat]]  USE eXchange-Correlation with NHAT (compensation charge density)
 

## Selected Input Files

*v4:*

- [[tests/v4/Input/t06.in]]
- [[tests/v4/Input/t08.in]]
- [[tests/v4/Input/t17.in]]
- [[tests/v4/Input/t94.in]]
 
*v5:*

- [[tests/v5/Input/t06.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t11.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t17.in]]
- [[tests/v5/Input/t20.in]]
 

## Tutorials

* [The lesson on the use of PAW (PAW1)](../../tutorial/generated_files/lesson_paw1.html) presents the Projector-Augmented Wave method, implemented in ABINIT as an alternative to norm-conserving pseudopotentials, with a sizeable accuracy and CPU time advantage.
* [The lesson on the generation of PAW atomic data files (PAW2)](../../tutorial/generated_files/lesson_paw2.html) presents the generation of atomic data for use with the PAW method. Prerequisite : PAW1.
* [The lesson on the validation of a PAW atomic datafile (PAW3)](../../tutorial/generated_files/lesson_paw3.html) demonstrates how to test a generated PAW dataset using ABINIT, against the ELK all-electron code, for diamond and magnesium. Prerequisite : PAW1 and PAW2.

