---
authors: FJ
rpath: topics/Planewaves.md
---
<!--
This file is automatically generated by mksite.py. All changes will be lost.
Change the input yaml files or the python code
-->

This page gives hints on how to perform numerically precise calculations with planewaves or projector-
augmented waves and pseudopotentials with the ABINIT package.

## Introduction

The numerical precision of the calculations depends on many settings, among
which the definition of a basis set is likely the most important. With
planewaves, there is one single parameter, [[ecut]] that governs the
completeness of the basis set.

The wavefunction, density, potentials are represented in both reciprocal space
(plane waves) and real space, on a homogeneous grid of points. The
transformation from reciprocal space to real space and vice-versa is made
thanks to the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) algorithm. With norm-conserving
pseudopotential, [[ecut]] is also the main parameter to define the real space
FFT grid, In PAW, the sampling for such quantities is governed by a more
independent variable, [[pawecutdg]]. More precise tuning might be done by
using [[boxcutmin]] and [[ngfft]].

Avoiding discontinuity issues with changing the size of the planewave basis
set is made possible thanks to [[ecutsm]].

The [[accuracy]] variable enables to tune the accuracy of a calculation by
setting automatically up to seventeen variables.

Many more parameters govern a PAW computation than a norm-conserving
pseudopotential calculation. They are described in a specific page
[[topic_PAW]]. For the settings related to wavelets, see [[topic:Wavelets]].



## Related Input Variables

*basic:*

- [[abinit:accuracy]]  ACCURACY
- [[abinit:ecutsm]]  Energy CUToff SMearing
 
*compulsory:*

- [[abinit:ecut]]  Energy CUToff
- [[abinit:pawecutdg]]  PAW - Energy CUToff for the Double Grid
 
*expert:*

- [[abinit:mqgrid]]  Maximum number of Q-space GRID points for pseudopotentials
- [[abinit:nc_xccc_gspace]]  Norm-Conserving pseudopotentials - use XC Core-Correction in G-SPACE
 
*internal:*

- [[abinit:mgfft]]  Maximum of nGFFT
- [[abinit:mgfftdg]]  Maximum of nGFFT for the Double Grid
- [[abinit:mpw]]  Maximum number of Plane Waves
- [[abinit:nfft]]  Number of FFT points
- [[abinit:nfftdg]]  Number of FFT points for the Double Grid
 
*useful:*

- [[abinit:boxcutmin]]  BOX CUT-off MINimum
- [[abinit:ngfft]]  Number of Grid points for Fast Fourier Transform
 

## Selected Input Files

No input file associated to this topic.

## Tutorials

* [The lesson 2](../../tutorial/generated_files/lesson_base2.html) deals again with the H2 molecule: convergence studies, LDA versus GGA 
* [The lesson 3](../../tutorial/generated_files/lesson_base3.html) deals with crystalline silicon (an insulator): the definition of a k-point grid, the smearing of the cut-off energy, the computation of a band structure, and again, convergence studies ...
* The first lesson on the [[lesson_paw1|the projector-augmented wave]] technique.

