---
!!python/object/apply:collections.OrderedDict
-   -   - authors
        - SP
    -   - rpath
        - tutorials/tdepes.md
---

# Lesson TDepES  

## Temperature-DEPendence of the Electronic Structure.  

This lesson aims at showing how to get the following physical properties, for
periodic solids:

  * The zero-point-motion renormalization (ZPR) of eigenenergies  

  * The temperature-dependence of eigenenergies  

  * The lifetime/broadening of eigenenergies  

For the theory related to the temperature-dependent calculations, you can read
the following papers: [[Ponce2015]], [[Ponce2014]] and [[Ponce2014a]].

There are two ways to compute the temperature dependence with Abinit:

  * **Using Anaddb**: historically the first coded way. This option does not require the use of Netcdf.
  * **Using post-processing python scripts**: this is the recommended way as it provide more options and is more optimal (take less disk space and is less memory demanding). This option REQUIRES the use of Netcdf (both for Abinit and for python). 

This lesson should take about 1 hour to be done.


## 1 Calculation of the ZPR of eigenenergies at q=Γ

  
The reference input files for this lesson are located in
~abinit/tests/tutorespfn/Input and the corresponding reference output files
are in ~abinit/tests/tutorespfn/Refs. The prefix is "tdepes". First, run the
calculation using the [[tests/tutorespfn/Input/tdepes_1.in]] input file. You
can use the files file [[tests/tutorespfn/Input/tdepes_1.files]] for abinit
(will always be the same, just change the last digit for the other
calculations):

#### **If Abinit is compiled with Netcdf**

If you have compiled Abinit with Netcdf, the calculation will produce _EIG.nc,
_DDB, EIGR2D.nc and EIGI2D.nc that contain respectively the eigenvalues (GS or
perturbed), the second-order derivative of the total energy with respect to
two atomic displacements, the electron-phonon matrix elements used to compute
the renormalization of the eigenenergies and the electron-phonon matrix
elements used to compute the lifetime of the electronic states. You can then
copy the post-processing (PP-temperature) python file from
~abinit/scripts/post_processing/temperature_para.py as well as the python file
containing the required classes from
~abinit/scripts/post_processing/mrgeignc.py into the directory where you did
the Abinit calculations. You can then simply run the python script with the
following command:

    
    
    python temperature_para.py
    

and enter the informations that the script ask. For example a possibility
could be (please remove the comments if you plan to use this file as input for
the script):

    
    
    1                     # Number of cpu to do the calculations
    1                     # Static ZPR computed in the Allen-Heine-Cardona (AHC) theory
    temperature           # Root name of the output
    y                     # We want the ZPR AND the temperature dependence
    1000 50               # We want the renormalization between 0 and 1000K by steps of 50K.
    y
    1                     # Number of Q-points we have (here we only computed $\Gamma$)
    tdepes_1o_DS3_DDB       # Name of the response-funtion (RF) DDB file
    tdepes_1o_DS2_EIG.nc    # Eigenvalues at $\mathbf{k+q}$
    tdepes_1o_DS3_EIGR2D.nc # Second-order electron-phonon matrix element 
    tdepes_1o_DS3_EIGI2D.nc # Second-order electron-phonon matrix element for electronic lifetime
    tdepes_1o_DS1_EIG.nc    # Eigenvalues at $k$
    

The python code will generate 3 files:

  * **temperature.txt**: This text file contain the ZPM correction at each k-point for each band. It also contain the evolution of each band with temperature at k=Γ. At the end of the file, the Fan/DDW contribution is also reported. 
  * **temperature_EP.nc**: This netcdf file contain a number for each k-point, for each band and each temperature. The real part of this number is the ZPM correction and the imaginary part is the lifetime. 
  * **temperature_BRD.txt**: This text file contain the lifetime of the electronic states at each k-point for each band. It also contain the evolution of each band with temperature at k=Γ. 
We can for example visualize the temperature dependence at k=Γ of the HOMO
bands with the contribution of only the q=Γ from the **temperature.txt** file.  
![](../documents/lesson_tdepes/plot1.png)

Here you can see that the HOMO correction goes down with temperature. This is
due to the underconvergence of the calculation. If you increase [[ecut]] from
5 to 10, you get the following plot.  
![](../documents/lesson_tdepes/plot2.png)

Now, the HOMO eigenenergies correction goes up with temperature... You can
also plot the LUMO eigenenergies corrections and see that they go down. The
ZPR correction as well as their temperature dependence usually closes the gap
in semiconductors.

#### **If Abinit is not compiled with Netcdf**

In this case, we should first use mrgddb to merge the _DDB and _EIGR2D/_EIGI2D
but since we only have one q-point we do not have to do it. The static
temperature dependence as well as the G2F can be computed thanks to anaddb
with the files file [[tests/tutorespfn/Input/tdepes_2.files]] and the input
file [[tests/tutorespfn/Input/tdepes_2.in]] The run will generate 3 files:

  * **tdepes_2.out_ep_G2F**: This g2F spectral function represents the contribution of the phononic modes of energy E to the change of electronic eigenenergies according to the equation  
![](../documents/lesson_tdepes/Eq1.png)

  * **tdepes_2.out_ep_PDS**: This file contains the phonon density of states 
  * **tdepes_2.out_ep_TBS**: This file contains the eigenenergy corrections as well as the temperature dependence one. You can check that the results are the same as with the python script approach here above. 



## 2 Converging the calculation with the q-point grid

  
From now on we will only describe the approach with Abinit compiled with
Netcdf. The approach with Anaddb is similar to what we described above. Note
that Anaddb only support homogenous q-point grid integration. You can
integrate over the q-grid using either random q-point integration or
homogenous Monkhorst-Pack based integration. For the random integration you
should create a script that generate random q-point, perform the Abinit
calculations at these points and then integrate them using the
temperature_para.py script. The script will detect that you did random
integration thanks to the weight of the q-point stored in the _EIGR2D.nc file
and perform the integration accordingly. The random integration converges
slowly but in a consistent manner. Since this methods is a little bit less
user friendly we will focus on the homogenous integration. The first thing we
need to do is to determine the number of q-point in the IBZ for a given
q-point grid. We choose here a 4x4x4 q -point grid. Use the input file
[[tests/tutorespfn/Input/tdepes_3.in]]. Launch this job, and kill it after a
few seconds. Then look into the log file to find the following line after the
list of q-points:

    
    
    symkpt : the number of k-points, thanks to the symmetries,
    is reduced to     8
    

In general, in order to get the number of q-points, launch a "fake" run with a
k-point grid equivalent to the q-point grid you want to use in your
calculation. Now that we know that the 4x4x4 q-point grid reduces to 8 IBZ
q-point we can make the following substitution into the input file

    
    
    ndtset 3 udtset 1 3 ==>  ndtset 24 udtset 8 3
    

and then launch the calculation. When the Abinit run is finished, launch the
python script

    
    
    python temperature_para.py < tdepes_3.files
    

with the file [[tests/tutorespfn/Input/tdepes_3.files]]. The plotting of the
same HOMO band at k=Γ for a 4x4x4 q-point grid gives a very different result
than previously (this graph has been obtained with [[ecut]] = 10).  
![](../documents/lesson_tdepes/plot3.png)

As a matter of fact, diamond needs an extremely dense q-point grid (40x40x40)
to be converged. On the bright side each q-point calculation is independent
and thus the parallel scaling is ideal...



## 3 Calculation of the eigenenergies correction along high-symmetry lines

  
The calculation of the electronic eigenvalue correction due to electron-phonon
coupling along high-symmetry lines requires the use of 6 datasets per q-point.
Different datasets are required to compute the following quantites:

  1. Ψ(0)kHom, the ground-state wavefunctions on the Homogeneous k-point sampling. 
  2. Ψ(0)kBS, the ground-state wavefunctions computed along the bandstructure k-point sampling. 
  3. Ψ(0)kHom+q, the ground-state wavefunctions on the shifted Homogeneous k+q-point sampling. 
  4. n(1), the perturbed density integrated over the homogeneous k+q grid. 
  5. Ψ(0)kBS+q, the ground-state wavefunctions obtained from reading the perturbed density of the previous dataset. 
  6. Reading the previous quantity we obtain the el-ph matrix elements along the BS with all physical quantities integrated over a homogeneous grid. 

Run the calculation using the [[tests/tutorespfn/Input/tdepes_4.in]] input
file, then the files file [[tests/tutorespfn/Input/tdepes_4.files]] for the
python script. Of course, the high symmetry points that we computed in section
2 have the same value here. It is a good idea to check it by running the
script with the file [[tests/tutorespfn/Input/tdepes_3bis.files]].

You can then copy the plotting script (Plot-EP-BS) python file from
~abinit/scripts/post_processing/plot_bs.py into the directory where you did
the Abinit calculations.  
Note that in order to run this script you need:

  * python 2.7.6 or higher 
  * numpy 1.7.1 or higher 
  * netCDF4 and netCDF4 for python 
  * scipy 0.12.0 or higher 
You can then use the following script feeding file or enter the data manually

    
    
    tdepes_4_EP.nc
    L \Gamma X W K L W X K \Gamma
    -20 30
    0
    

This should give you the bandstructure  
![](../documents/lesson_tdepes/plot4.png)

where the solid black lines are the traditional electronic bandstructure, the
dashed lines are the electronic eigenenergies with electron-phonon
renormalization at a defined temperature (here 0K). Finally the area around
the dashed line is the lifetime of the electronic eigenstates.

You should of course notice all the spiky jumps in the renormalization. This
is because we did a completely under-converged calculation.

It is possible to converge the calculations using [[ecut]]=30 Ha, a [[ngkpt]]
grid of 6x6x6 and an increasing [[ngqpt]] grid to get converged results:

    
    
    | Convergence study ZPR and inverse lifetime(1/τ) [meV] at 0K               |
    | q-grid   | Nb qpt |       Γ25'       |        Γ15       |      Min Γ-X     | 
    |          | in IBZ |  ZPR   |  1/τ   |   ZPR   |  1/τ   |   ZPR   |  1/τ   |
    | 4x4x4    |  8     | 0.1175 | 0.0701 | -0.3178 | 0.1916 | -0.1570 | 0.0250 |
    | 10x10x10 |  47    | 0.1390 | 0.0580 | -0.3288 | 0.1847 | -0.1605 | 0.0308 |
    | 20x20x20 |  256   | 0.1446 | 0.0574 | -0.2691 | 0.1823 | -0.1592 | 0.0298 |
    | 26x26x26 |  511   | 0.1448 | 0.0573 | -0.2736 | 0.1823 | -0.1592 | 0.0297 |
    | 34x34x34 |  1059  | 0.1446 | 0.0573 | -0.2699 | 0.1821 | -0.1591 | 0.0297 | 
    | 43x43x43 |  2024  | 0.1447 | 0.0572 | -0.2650 | 0.1821 | -0.1592 | 0.0297 |
    

As you can see the limiting factor for the convergence study is the
convergence of the LUMO band at Γ. This band is not the lowest in energy (the
lowest is on the line between Γ and X) and therefore this band is rather
unstable. This can also be seen by the fact that it has a large electronic
broadening, meaning that this state will decay quickly into another state.

Using the relatively dense q-grid of 43x43x43 we can obtain the following
converged bandstructure, at a high temperature (1900K):  
![](../documents/lesson_tdepes/plot5.png)

Here we show the renormalization at a very high temperature of 1900K in order
to highlight more the broadening and renormalization that occurs. If you want
accurate values of the ZPR at 0K you can look at the table above.

#### Possible issue while converging your calculations

If you use a extremely fine q-point grid, the acoustic phonon frequencies for
q-points close to Γ will be wrongly determined by Abinit. Indeed in order to
have correct phonon frequencies, you have to impose the accousting sum rule
with anaddb. Since it is not possible here with the script, we reject the
contribution of the acoustic phonon close to Γ if their phonon frequency is
lower than 1E-6 Ha. Otherwise you get unphysically large contribution. You can
tune this paramter by editing the variable "tol6 = 1E-6" in the beginning of
the mrgeignc.py file. For example, for the last 43x43x43 calculation, it was
set to 1E-4.



